[Music]
so you want to make saving fun
and turn it into a little game with
levels bonuses and prizes
level one put 20 bucks aside each week
that'll give you over a thousand bucks a
year
or you can try the stairway approach
each month you take a step
up and add five dollars to your goal
january twenty dollars a week
february twenty five after a year you'll
have almost
twenty five hundred dollars now you just
need a sweet piggy bank
since we're talking about a game here
why not add more players
maybe some family members or close
friends make it into a little friendly
contest
whoever saves the most over a certain
number of months gets a free ice cream
courtesy of everyone else i like that
if you're up for a challenge here are a
couple of good ones
the 365 money saving challenge first you
choose a small amount to save on a daily
basis
and add 50 cents to that each month
january
a buck a day february 150. that'll get
you to well over a thousand by the end
of the year
with a bunch to spare or you can do it
by days
stash a dollar on monday 2 on tuesday
three on wednesday four on thursday and
what do you think
five on friday okay then take the week
off
you deserve it when monday rolls around
start it up again
that's almost 800 bucks a year totally
enough for a blowout new year's party
[Music]
now if you don't feel like counting your
money on a daily basis
just pop 15 bucks in the piggy bank
every sunday night
once that becomes part of your routine
you've got it made
not into saving a trash bag full of
small bills i hear you
you can always skip up to pro level and
try the no spend
challenge buy groceries on the first of
the month and pay your bills in advance
then give yourself a couple of dollars a
week for any unforeseen expenses
in case your boss wants to grab a coffee
with you or something
apart from that nothing that means no
new clothes haircuts gadgets and yup
candy no more sweet sweet candy
if you're up for some living on the edge
level savings
try going half seas with yourself your
goal is to put
half your income aside for a couple of
months or even an entire year
what do you think millionaires do i like
the empty your pockets method
you come home and before you do anything
you empty your pockets into a jar
no receipts are questionable tissues
please coins
a couple of ones and any big bills you
forgot to put back in your wallet
my tip make that jar nice and big you'll
feel awesome when you manage to fill it
then it's time to go to that machine at
the grocery store that counts your coins
some give you cash others give you gift
cards either way
it feels like free money you could
always go grandpa style
well my grandpa at least just save the
fives
every single five dollar bill goes in a
secret stash
whenever you get change don't count it
or make any sort of strict plans
just let the pile grow for at least six
months or a year
then you can put it all in the bank or
do what my grandpa used to do
go on an epic grocery shopping
extravaganza on january
1st this method might not make you
rapper rich if you pay with a credit
card most of the time
but by the end of the year you still
might be in for a nice little surprise
track your buying habits if you prefer
the old-school way
pick up a notebook or one of those
budget planners
if you're the kind of person who just
loves to lose things somewhere under
your bed
there are tons of useful apps you can
use
don't just write everything down all
jumbled up split it up into
categories bills rent entertainment
sports
food that way you can see where your
money's going
and find the category where you're
saving willpower is the weakest
maybe you visit that restaurant on your
way to work a little too much
they even know your name that's never a
good sign
deep down you know the solution search
around for some new cooking ideas
open a cookbook or call your family for
that secret pasta sauce recipe cooking
at home is usually healthier
and cheaper but it also helps you plan
your meals in advance
planning is saving i'm really starting
to sound like my grandpa
when you already know your menu for the
week it's easier to stick to your
shopping list
and not spend money on impulse buys
level up
you're at the grocery store look for
whole veggies and stuff
instead of pre-cut foods and buy
seasonal fruits and vegetables
how do you know if it's in season it's
almost always the cheapest thing on the
shelf
don't buy stuff during the holidays
that's when the shops really get you
just wait a few weeks after season sales
are prime
shopping opportunities ask your best
friend do they want a small present now
or a way better present in a couple of
weeks what would you say
if you're already in the store try the
10 second rule
every time you want to buy something
hold it for 10 seconds
does it make you feel happy or is it
kind of silly
here's another challenge find one thing
you spend money on almost
every day it's coffee isn't it this may
sound a bit extreme
but you don't have to get off the
caffeine train forever
just make your coffee at home it tastes
even better when you do the math
say your coffee is right around above 50
and you get it every day
that's like 500 bucks right there you
could buy a 500
state of the art coffee machine then
every year after that
free coffee for everyone or not
give yourself a fine every time you
oversleep spend all day scrolling your
feed
forget to take out the trash forget to
feed your cat
just pop a dollar in a jar every time
your bad habits
might finally start paying off you don't
always have to pay for everything with
money
what about the good old barter system
buying stuff with
other stuff back in the day people used
to pay with food
spices tea even salt you used to be able
to pay your rent with onions
about a thousand years ago what kind of
stuff are you good at
give your friend's car an oil change
groom your neighbor's dog
see what they have to offer you might
get a home-cooked meal a free haircut
their old bike it makes it exciting
diy is totally back in these days make
your own chemical-free
eco-friendly detergent cleaning spray
soaps
even shaving cream cheaper better plus
you'll learn something
vinegar olive oil bicarbonate of soda
way
cheaper than cosmetics and industrial
cleaners a nice way to save on presents
is the classic holiday gift exchange
everyone writes their name on a paper
it all goes into a funny hat like mine
here and everyone pulls out a name
now you only have to buy one person at
work a present
take a look at the free activities your
town has to offer
swap out a movie and popcorn for a free
concert free art gallery or museum
some places get free classes like how to
make a sushi roll
or make pasta from scratch unplug your
electronics and appliances
within reason even if they're off they
could still be costing you
it's called phantom power the average
american family has around 20 to 40 home
devices
that could still be using up some juice
when they're plugged in and switched off
stuff like your router tv printer
just don't save time for some random
future put some money away for something
fun
too like a short summer vacation concert
tickets or a new
phone it's gonna make you feel awesome
to know that you bought something
expensive
just by putting away a few quarters here
and there
last tip don't take it too seriously if
you tried a savings challenge but it
didn't work out
just try another until you find the
right one for you
makes sense huh since get it